Now that we've got our password manager class all put together, we're going to make use of it inside
of our user model file.
Some inside of my model's directory.
Looking at the user file at the very top, I'm going to import password from a one directory services
password.
So now whenever we try to save a user to our database, we're going to implement some code inside of
here that's going to automatically intercept that save attempt.
It's going to take the user's password that we've set on the user document, hash it, and then overwrite
the password on the document.
So let's put this together.
Down towards the bottom of the file right after we build out our user schema.
I'm going to add in a new method right after that we will say user schema dot pre save.
So this is a middleware function implemented in Mongoose.
Any time we attempt to save a document to our database, we are going to execute this function right
here.
Immediately.
You will notice that I marked this function as async mongoose.
Very similar to Express is kind of in the old way of doing things.
Mongoose does not really have great support out of the box for async, await syntax instead to handle
any kind of asynchronous code that we want to run inside this little callback function, we get this
done argument so we are responsible for calling done once we have done all the work we need to do inside
of here.
So rather than just saying, await, blah, blah blah something and then letting mongoose figure out
what's going on, we have to do our await call, anything else we want to do.
And then at the very end we have to call it done.
You'll also notice that I define this function using the function keyword as opposed to an arrow function
like this right here.
So quick reminder, whenever we put together a middleware function, we get access to the document that
is being saved.
So the actual user that we're trying to persist to the database as this inside of this function.
If we used an arrow function right here.
Then the value of this inside the function would be overridden and would be actually instead equal to
the context of this entire file as opposed to our user document, not what we want.
So that's why we are using the function keyword instead of the arrow function.
So inside of here, we're going to do two quick things.
We're going to check and see if the user or we're going to check and see if we've modified the user's
password.
We're going to say if this dot is modified.
Password.
The reason for this is that we might be retrieving the user out of the database and then trying to save
them back into the database at some future point in time.
We don't really have any functionality around that just right now.
Well, let's imagine that we had some kind of email change functionality that would involve us fetching
a user out of the database, changing the email, and then trying to save it to the database.
So in that scenario, we would still be running this middleware right here.
If we only change the email, we would not want to try to rehash the password or anything like that,
because that means that we would be hashing a already hashed password, definitely not what we want.
So we are only going to attempt to hash the password if it has been modified.
When we first create a user and assign a password to them.
So in other words, when we eventually write out something like user build and throw in an email and
a password.
This mongoose will consider password to be modified.
So even if we are just creating this thing for the very first time is modified.
Password will return.
True.
All right.
So inside of here, we're going to get the hashed version of the password.
So we'll do it and await password to hash.
And we will pass in the users password that they just set or that we just set on the user document.
So we'll say.
Biscuit.
Password.
So that's going to get the user's password off the document and we'll pass it into two hash.
And that gives us back the hash password.
Well then go ahead and update the password.
So this set.
Password.
To whatever.
We just got back out of the password hashing function.
And then finally after the if statement, we'll call done because we've now done all the asynchronous
work we need to do.
All right, so that looks pretty good.
I'm going to save this.
So let's now go ahead and attempt to test this out by signing up for a new account.
Remember, right now, any time we sign up for an account or sign up as a user, our route handler back
inside of sign signup takes the newly saved user and sends it back to whoever made the request.
Right now or previously when we were trying to test this thing out, we saw that we sent back the password
in plain text.
So now when we send back this user, we should see the password in a hashed format instead.
All right, so I'm going to go to Postman.
I'm going to put in another unique email address.
I'm going to send this in.
And there we go.
So I can now see that the user that gets sent back to me, I've got my email and I've got a hash password
on there as well.
Well, that looks good.
So now we are no longer storing passwords in plaintext inside of our database.
That is fantastic.
Now we still have to put together some logic to actually do the password comparison.
We're going to write that out during our actual sign in implementation.
So we're just about done with the sign up stuff.
The last thing we have to do, as you will recall, is make sure.
Where is it?
Back over here.
After we have saved the user to the database, we are now considering this person to be logged in.
So we need to figure out how we're going to actually consider a person to be logged in.
We need to figure out whether we want to use a cookie JSON Web token or whatever else.
Let's figure all that stuff out, starting in just a moment.